README.md, before:

# DevBits 

## Note: This project was not funded and ultimately development ended on it, it is now READ ONLY and archived.

## Goal: Create an X and LinkedIn crossover for posting real content about your projects, semi-formally

### Outline

Projects are the baseline of the app, you must have a project to post.

Anyone can comment, like, follow, despite their project count.

Some quirky names for things (frontend only)

- Projects are called 'Stream's
- Posts about projects are called 'Byte's
- Comments are called 'Bit's

### Tech Stack

- Backend/API in Go, Elixir/Scala if need big data processing
- Frontend: ReactNative and Expo
- Database: PostgreSQL or MySQL
- Host: On AWS, full system design pending

## Local Testing

### Backend Testing

Install the following packages:

- [**Go**](https://go.dev/doc/install) (for running the API)
- [**SQLite3**](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html) (for database operations)

#### 1. Navigate to the Project Root

Change into the project directory:

```bash
cd /path/to/DevBits
```

#### 2. Start the Database

1. Open a terminal and navigate to the database directory:

   ```bash
   cd backend/api/internal/database
   ```

2. Launch the SQLite database:

   ```bash
   sqlite3 dev.sqlite3
   ```

3. (Optional) Open the `create_tables.sql` file in a new terminal for reference:

   ```bash
   nvim create_tables.sql
   ```

#### 3. Start the API

1. Open another terminal and navigate to the backend directory:

   ```bash
   cd backend
   ```

2. Run the API:

   ```bash
   go run ./api
   ```

That's it! You're ready to start working with the DevBits API and database.

---

### Frontend Testing

Install the following packages:

- [**Node**](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager) (for running the React Native App)

#### 1. Navigate to the DevBits Frontend

Change into the project directory:

```bash
cd /path/to/DevBits/frontend
```

#### 2. Check required packages are installed

```bash
npm install     
```

#### 3. Start the app

```bash
npm run frontend
```

In the output, you'll find options to open the app in a

- [development build](https://docs.expo.dev/develop/development-builds/introduction/)
- [Android emulator](https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/android-studio-emulator/)
- [iOS simulator](https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/ios-simulator/)
- [Expo Go](https://expo.dev/go), a limited sandbox for trying out app development with Expo

### Run app

#### 1. Navigate to the DevBits frontend (required to run npm commands)

Change into the project directory:

```bash
cd /path/to/DevBits/frontend
```

#### 2. Run all required commands

```bash
npm run all
```

Commit message:

Integrating backend and frontend for full stack testing. Yea. I ddid a lot. off branch.  oops im bad at git. added and integrated notifications sign in and account management settings seach integration. added MD support added image and file support very poorly. added edit and delete functionality. added profile viewing added save functionality. kinda broke. trying to unify refresh and backend updates so that all data is accuratly displayed on frontend.

README.md, after:

# DevBits

## Note: This project was not funded and ultimately development ended on it, it is now READ ONLY and archived.

## Goal: Create an X and LinkedIn crossover for posting real content about your projects, semi-formally

### Outline

Projects are the baseline of the app, you must have a project to post.

Anyone can comment, like, follow, despite their project count.

Some quirky names for things (frontend only)

- Projects are called 'Stream's
- Posts about projects are called 'Byte's
- Comments are called 'Bit's

### Tech Stack

- Backend/API in Go, Elixir/Scala if need big data processing
- Frontend: ReactNative and Expo
- Database: PostgreSQL or MySQL
- Host: On AWS, full system design pending

## Local Testing

### Backend Testing

Install the following packages:

- [**Go**](https://go.dev/doc/install) (for running the API)
- [**SQLite3**](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html) (for database operations)

#### 1. Navigate to the Project Root

Change into the project directory:

```bash
cd /path/to/DevBits
```

#### 2. Start the Database

1. Open a terminal and navigate to the database directory:

   ```bash
   cd backend/api/internal/database
   ```

2. Launch the SQLite database:

   ```bash
   sqlite3 dev.sqlite3
   ```

3. (Optional) Open the `create_tables.sql` file in a new terminal for reference:

   ```bash
   nvim create_tables.sql
   ```

#### 3. Start the API

1. Open another terminal and navigate to the backend directory:

   ```bash
   cd backend
   ```

2. Run the API:

   ```bash
   go run ./api
   ```

That's it! You're ready to start working with the DevBits API and database.

---

### Frontend Testing

Install the following packages:

- [**Node**](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager) (for running the React Native App)

#### 1. Navigate to the DevBits Frontend

Change into the project directory:

```bash
cd /path/to/DevBits/frontend
```

#### 2. Check required packages are installed

```bash
npm install
```

#### 3. Start the app

```bash
npm run frontend
```

In the output, you'll find options to open the app in a

- [development build](https://docs.expo.dev/develop/development-builds/introduction/)
- [Android emulator](https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/android-studio-emulator/)
- [iOS simulator](https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/ios-simulator/)
- [Expo Go](https://expo.dev/go), a limited sandbox for trying out app development with Expo

### Run app

#### 1. Navigate to the DevBits frontend (required to run npm commands)

Change into the project directory:

```bash
cd /path/to/DevBits/frontend
```

#### 2. Run all required commands

```bash
npm run all
```

#### Windows quick start (root script)

From the project root, you can launch backend + frontend together:

```powershell
./run-all.ps1
```
